Search notes (#66)
val-town/val-town-blog: src/content/blog/search-notes.md

---
title: Code Search is Hard

> description: Searching code at scale without creating the need for a search team is hard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Searching code at scale without a search team is hard
```

pubDate: April 10, 2024
author: Tom MacWright
---

> Val Town's search functionality isn't very good. Right now it's built on the Postgres [ILIKE](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/functions-matching.html) functionality, which just performs a substring search: if your search term is in the Val, it should appear in search results. There's virtually no ranking involved, and queries with multiple words are pretty poorly supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Val Town's search functionality isn't very good. Right now it's built on the Postgres [ILIKE](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/functions-matching.html) functionality, which just performs a substring search: if your search term is in the code, it appears in search results. There's virtually no ranking involved, and queries with multiple words are pretty poorly supported.
```

> Val Town's search functionality isn't very good. Right now it's built on the Postgres [ILIKE](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/functions-matching.html) functionality, which just performs a substring search: if your search term is in the Val, it should appear in search results. There's virtually no ranking involved, and queries with multiple words are pretty poorly supported.

Reviewer: Could be nice to head of "If you're thinking 'why don't they just use X?' keep reading. Likely we've thought of it"

```sql
select * from to_tsvector('english',
  'function stringifyNumber(a: number): string { return a.toString() }');
-- 'a.tostring':7 'function':1 'number':4 'return':6 'string':5 'stringifynumb':2
```

This is a pretty bad index: it has words that should be stop words, like `function`, and won't split `a.toString()` into two tokens because `.` is not a default word boundary.

### Full Text Search

Postgres has a [Full Text Search](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/textsearch.html) extension which is supported by our hosting provider, [Render](https://docs.render.com/postgresql-extensions). I've used FTS in previous projects, and for certain scales, it works great. You can try and [use Postgres for everything](https://www.amazingcto.com/postgres-for-everything/), and frankly, so far we have: we've been using the heck out of Postgres. It's a fantastic piece of technology with great documentation that is well-supported by our hosting provider.

If we can use Postgres for something, we will: keeping infrastructure as simple as possible is essential with a small team.

> However, the previous projects I've used FTS for have run into performance problems and struggled to scale. We have a ton of vals, and are testing the limits of a single-node Postgres cluster. It's hard to find any accounts of code-search using FTS, though people might be quietly succeeding with it. I wanted to avoid this as a first option but keep it in my back pocket.

Reviewer: I would specifically mention the Observable experience

### The universe of options

| Option                                        | Architecture       | Language | Stars |
| --------------------------------------------- | ------------------ | -------- | ----- |
| [Meilisearch](https://www.meilisearch.com/)   | Standalone         | Rust     | 41k   |
| [Typesense](https://typesense.org/)           | Standalone         | C++      | 17k   |
| [Zoekt](https://github.com/sourcegraph/zoekt) | Standalone         | Go       | 406   |
| [ParadeDB](https://www.paradedb.com/)         | Postgres extension | Rust     | 3.2k  |

There are code-specific tools that exist, but most of them are closed-source: GitHub's search is excellent, but is obviously the work of a dedicated team with a real time budget.

- Sourcegraph's maintained fork of [Zoekt](https://github.com/google/zoekt) is pretty cool, but is pretty fearfully niche and would be a big, new infrastructure commitment.

> - [Elasticsearch](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch) might be the eventual, unavoidable solution to this problem. It doesn't have code-specific handling, but can be tuned in nearly infinite ways. We're not excited to start learning about Java memory tuning and to introduce the first persistent disk storage to our application, as well as an additional source of truth for our data.

Reviewer: Double use of "tune" but meaning different things

Reviewer: The java stuff feels a bit like a straw man, wouldn't we use elastic search as a service?
